We will analyze the case of Pierre
Transfer from what Iker told
us and we will relate
it to things we have learned.
Well, the first thing we were told
is that the company is born, like
all success cases, from the identification
of a problem, in addition
to a big problem that has a
lot of people.
And it is that when you are going
to make international transfers, the
exchange rate applied by the bank makes
you lose a lot of money.
In his case, he was going to lose
a thousand euros when he had to pay
the fees at MIT.
Then he decided to create Pierre
Transfer.
Pierre Transfer is a platform
that connects individuals
with individuals or companies
with companies.
It is a peer-to-peer platform.
By the way, I share with you this
evolution of the business model
canvas in which the customer segments
have them on both sides.
It is a mirror model canvas that
I think reflects very well or
represents very well the business
model on the platform.
Well, with this initial model, the
value proposal was for both sides,
it’s the savings that are produced
by making the transfer through
Pierre Transfer.
What happens is that two things happen.
One, that it is realized that the cost
of capture is high.
And two, he also realizes that the
universities with which he has a
relationship transmit to him that
they have a problem in the
management of the students’ fees.
Because they receive thousands
of transfers every year from students
around the world.
In some cases, for example,
Asians with very similar
names, etc.
It seems to be very difficult
to manage that.
At that point, he decided to
develop the business model.
And what he creates is a platform
that instead of being Pierre to Pierre,
what he does is connect
universities with students.
And the value proposal for
universities is to manage
those student fees.
And the value proposal or
benefit for students is that they
save a percentage of that transaction
or that transfer,
forgiveness.
And also something very important
that we will analyze is that
the growth strategy improves
much with this evolution.
Let’s see why.
Usually the platforms have the
challenge, as we have studied
in other classes, good initially
to overcome the egg and chicken.
And they have the challenge of facing the network,
which if you don’t have users you don’
t generate value.
One of the solutions as we saw
is that you are able to create
value on one side of the platform
or the marketplace.
Create value for it
regardless of whether there are
users on the other side or not.
This is called the single value user.
Of course, that allows you in this
case by bringing value as software
to universities.
What allowed him to grow in hundreds
of universities, including
universities like MIT or Harvard,
very quickly.
It doesn’t matter if
there are students or not.
It was simply a software that
was good for universities,
but the second derivative is even
better.
And another tip we’ve seen is that sometimes
if you’re able to support yourself in
another network, in another company,
on another platform that already
has a critical mass of users, it helps
you grow a lot.
And in this case, fix yourself, what he
gets is that he captures
universities because he brings them a
value, single value user.
But these universities also
help capture students.
Because to all international
students who will make transfers
to that university every year,
the university offers you
to do so through Pierre Transfer.
This is helping to reduce the
cost of capture considerably.
And this was one of the
keys to Pierre Transfer’
s growth of 800% per year.
We were told that now the company that
is now called Flywire, the company
has returned or incorporated,
in addition to this service
of connecting universities with students,
is incorporating the service
of Pierre to Pierre.
And if you actually get into
the website you can hire your
own transfers.